
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# lcmm-site

This is the repository for analysis used in Latent Crohn’s Disease
Subgroups are Identified by Faecal Calprotectin Profiles by
Constantine-Cooke et al. The reports generated by this code can be found
[here](http://www.constantine-cooke.com/lcmm-site/).

## Usage

This report requires access to the Crohn’s disease inception cohort
dataset hosted by the University of Edinburgh. For access to these data,
please [contact Professor Charlie Lees](mailto:charlie.lees@ed.ac.uk).

To generate the results, the
[`renv`](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html) R package
and [Quarto](https://quarto.org) scientific publishing system is
required.

### `renv`

The `renv` package is used to manage dependency management: ensuring the
same R packages, with their respective versions, are used when the
analysis is run.

Clone this repository. If you have not already, please [install
R](https://cran.r-project.org). Then, from R, install the `renv` package

``` r
install.packages("renv")
```

Open a project with the working directory of this cloned repository.
Then use the below command to install the R packages required for this
project

``` r
renv::restore()
```

### Quarto

Quarto is used to generate the reports. If you have not already, please
[install Quarto](https://quarto.org/docs/get-started/).

### Generating output

Mount `smb://cmvm.datastore.ed.ac.uk/igmm/` to `/Volumes/`. From a
terminal, `cd` into the directory you have cloned this repository into.
Finally, run `quarto render`. Figures used in the paper can be found in
the `paper` directory whilst plots not used in the manuscript can be
found in the `plots` directory. The generated website files can be found
in `docs` and can be served by any web server, for example by running
the below code:

``` bash
cd docs
python3 -m http.server
```
